# CS-465

Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).

  In the Travlr Getaways web application that was built we used the MEAN stack of tools in order to complete the requiremnts within the wireframe. 
Express HTML was intitially used to create static HTML pages within the web application. Express is used with Node.js as a framework to create efficient web applications. Handlebars, a template used with Node.js and Express, was used to create templates in place of html calls for web pages. Instead of calling upon the HTML route of the web page, a simple handlebar (/route) was used to call a page. This is due to the html routing having a template for handlebars to be called and pull the page.  
  Angular is a powerful tool used i nthe web application. It is a frotnend tool used to create the SPA (single-page appication). The SPA is utilized as such: When an html request to a website is called by the user on the frontend, all data (images, templates, text, etc) that is required to render the web application is loaded at once. This cretaes the we application from one load of the page, instead of having a new load of the application each time a request comes in. The requests and payload are then put on to the browser of the user, easing the stress on the server. With SPA's there are some drawbacks as well. An SPA is not ideal for applications that are geared as search engines. When a search engine calls upon a request, with an SPA, scraping of the data will not happen efficiently and can create issues when drawing upon the data of a particular web page during the search.

Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?

  MongoDB is a non-relational NoSQL database that is ued within the MEAN stack that was utilized to create the Travlr web application. Being a non-relational NoSQL database, it is used our web application due to its felxibility of how data is stored within the database. This NoSQL dtaabase is used as well due to its speed to retirve data, being a crucial feature when usig SPAs. Since an SPA pulls all the data to render the page in a single load, a fast option on the backend, such as MongoDB, is needed to render the page in a timely manner. 

How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?

  JavaScript is a dynamic computer programming language. It is lightweight and  commonly used for web applications, whose implementations allow client-side script to interact with the user and make dynamic pages. It is an interpreted programming language with object-oriented capabilities. JSON stands for Javascript Object Notation. It is a data interchange format that is used to exchange data between the frontend and backend of the application. It is commonly used for its ease of use and readability by humans and computers. It is lightweight and is language independent, but with many commonalities in the C language structure (C, C++, Java, JavaScript, etc).  It is used to tie both ends of the application by transferring the data from the database to the the server, then to the client side to be displayed per the request.
  
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.

  One way the code for the application was refactored was via the implementation of the handlebars template. This use of handlebars on the header and footer HTML files allowed for the reduction of lines of code via the creation of partials. This creation was then injected into each page's html file as a handlebar to call the header and footer files. Another way the code was reformatted was building appropriate models, views, and controllers for templating and to render data to the application. This allowed for routes and views to be called for requested data instead of hard-coding the data into each page statically. 
  
  Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
  
  When using Postman, it was my intention to test the API framework of the application. This was achieved by the introduction of CRUD controllers (Create, Read, Update, Delete). Then it was necessary to create methods, such as addTrips and updateTrips in order to call upon the requested data and to call upon the proper action for each method. The use of endpoints, which would make a request to a particular page on the frontend, such as localhost:3000/api/login or /api/trips, would then allow the tetsing of the proper CRUD method to be used for the request. Data would be entered into the body of the endpoint, with the appropriate method listed and then would be sent to either prove the setup was correct or encuntered an error in the request. Security was implemented, such as authentication. This would also be tested on the endpoint to verify the user would be granted or denied access to the data after the request.
  
How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?

  As a student who is relatively new to computer science (less than 3 years of exposure and experience), this course was immensely beneficial. It almost felt like a bootcamp into four different realms that make up MEAN. This course educated me in many new concepts and has helped me grow my mental portfolio as well as my professional portfolio. I have already put my newly acquired knowledge to use in aiding me in applications for potential new career positions. It has built my confidence in my abilities and has helped me find a new field path that I feel like I can excell at.

